Hi my name is Nate McCullough on behalf of
Expert Village. In the following clips we're
going to talk about the correct procedure
for replacing your upper and lower ball joints
on a two wheel drive full size vehicle. In
this clip we're going to talk about removal
of the cotter pin and retaining nut on your
upper ball joint. As you can see I have my
replacement upper ball joint here. I'm going
to take the nut off and show you the hole
that our cotter pin goes through. There's
a hole right there, that is a safety feature
to keep that nut from working it's way loose
over time. The cotter pin inserts through
the castle nut into that hole and is bent
down. I'm going to go ahead and remove the
one that is factory installed right now. The
tool I like to use is a pair of wire cutters.
They can apply an amazing amount of grip to
something like a cotter pin and they work
great for removing them. Alright and that
is the proper way to remove your cotter pin.
You take and break loose the retaining nut
right now. Ok I'm going to slip my socket
onto the upper ball joint retaining nut and
break it loose. Your going to continue ratcheting
your socket wrench until the nut comes off.
Your new ball joint should come with a new
fastening nut and cotter pin so you don't
have to worry about saving those components.
You continue ratcheting until it comes off
and we're just about there.
And that is the proper method for removal
of your cotter pin and the retaining nut also
referred to as a castle nut. As you can see
it looks like the ramparts of a castle.